### Class-Work
### Topic:  Customer Segmentation for a Subscription Service

### Summary of Porject
This project involves analyzing customer data for a subscription service to identify
segments and trends. Your goal is to understand customer behavior, track subscription types,
and identify key trends in cancellations and renewals. The final deliverable is a Power BI
dashboard that presents your analysis.

### Objectives of the Project
1. Excel:
 - Analyze customer data using pivot tables to find subscription patterns.
 - Calculate the average subscription duration and identify the most popular
     subscription types.
 - Create any other interesting reports.
   
2. SQL:
 - to load the dataset into your SQL Server environment to write
     and validate your queries.
  - Write queries to extract key insights based on the following questions.
  - retrieve the total number of customers from each region.
  - find the most popular subscription type by the number of customers.
  - find customers who canceled their subscription within 6 months.
  - calculate the average subscription duration for all customers.
  - find customers with subscriptions longer than 12 months.
  - calculate total revenue by subscription type.
  - find the top 3 regions by subscription cancellations.
  - find the total number of active and canceled subscriptions.
    
3. Power BI:
- Build a Power BI dashboard that visualizes key customer segments,
     cancellations, and subscription trends.
 - Include slicers for interactive analysis.
   
### Data Source
The dataset include the following key columns
- CustomerId: which is also a unique identifier assigned to each customer within the retail store
- Customer Name: The name of the customer that purchased a service
- Region: The geographical area
- SubscriptionType: This is  the category of a subscription service offered to customers
- SubscriptionStart: This is the date a customer subscrition becomes active and they gained access to the subscribed service
- SubscriptionEnd: This is the date a customer's subscription expires or is terminated
- Canceled: This is termination of a subscription order resulting in the ceasation of services 
- Revenue: This is income generated by a business from it's normal bussiness activities


### Tools Used
-Excel: use of Pivot tables summarize total sales by product, region, and month,  use of charts, statistical functions and visualization
-SQL: Queries and aggregation 
- Power BI for Data visualization use of  Bar charts, pie charts, Dounts, Card
-  Use of Slicer as filter

### Data Cleaning Preparation
- Cleaning of data was done in excel to remove duplicates
- Duration of subscription in days column was created in excel before exporting to SQL studio and Power BI desktop
- conditional and custom columns were created in power BI

### Explaratory Data Analysis
